Conversation with #unknown-horizons at Sun 06 Nov 2011 07:00:33 PM CET on karottenreibe@irc.freenode.net (irc)
(07:00:33 PM) #unknown-horizons: The topic for #unknown-horizons is: How cannons get on ships
(07:00:33 PM) List of 34 users: [ ChanServ ][ UH-Guard ][ abeaumont ][ Andre_Re ][ barra_home ][ cassmodiah ][ chrisoelmueller ][ christoph_debian ][ CIA-79 ][ Gambit ][ GreyGhost ][ gscai ][ hagabaka ][ inken ][ janebot ][ janus ][ josch ][ karottenreibe ][ ketas ][ ketas-ts ][ Kilian] ][ LinuxDonald ][ lolcat ][ manue| ][ Nightraven ][ nihathrael ][ ronnie_c ][ rudi_s ][ scaaabi ][ shadowmaster ][ skelet ][ totycro_ ][ tuempl ][ wentam ]
(07:00:33 PM) adams.freenode.net: (notice) [freenode-info] channel trolls and no channel staff around to help? please check with freenode support: http://freenode.net/faq.shtml#gettinghelp[1]
(07:00:33 PM) Andre_Re: what about a cannon slider in the ships yard menu?
(07:00:48 PM) Kilian]: hi karottenreibe
(07:00:52 PM) karottenreibe: hi everyone
(07:00:54 PM) chrisoelmueller: but as long as we do not change the cannon tower build design, building ships should be done similarly
(07:00:57 PM) chrisoelmueller: heya karottenreibe
(07:01:05 PM) Andre_Re: where you can preselect if the ship should be equipted with cannons while building, or not?
(07:01:13 PM) ronnie_c: karottenreibe: hi
(07:01:17 PM) Andre_Re: hi karottenreibe
(07:01:18 PM) gscai: Andre_Re: sounds good to me
(07:01:36 PM) chrisoelmueller: #idea add a slider 'cannon amount' in the boat builder menu  where you can select the amount of cannons for the to-be-built ship
(07:01:39 PM) Andre_Re: this would solve that problem without adding too much micromanagement
(07:01:41 PM) totycro_: that would mean cannons are a modification of the ship
(07:01:48 PM) chrisoelmueller: they are, in the end
(07:02:01 PM) totycro_: as are planned for e.g. higher masts
(07:02:05 PM) chrisoelmueller: since there are plans (and widgets) for such a modification tab, that sounds good
(07:02:19 PM) Kilian]: didnt we vote against a solution where you have to take care of too much details while building a single ship ?
(07:02:25 PM) chrisoelmueller: you would get to that tab after selecting the ship type and before confirming the order
(07:02:25 PM) totycro_: should that be included in the whole mod tab?
(07:02:30 PM) chrisoelmueller: think: purchase certain upgrades
(07:02:51 PM) totycro_: Kilian]: didn't we agree on what chrisoelmueller just said?
(07:03:15 PM) Andre_Re: totycro_: +1
(07:03:38 PM) Kilian]: hm, maybe i confused already
(07:03:43 PM) totycro_: so it should still be possible to just build a ship without really needing extra clicks, but can be available to those who want that
(07:03:56 PM) totycro_: before concrete work on that we should probably recheck the meeting logs anyway
(07:04:18 PM) totycro_: so on this issue now, is the consensus to regard this as first mod and implement it soon?
(07:05:06 PM) gscai: sounds reasonable
(07:05:07 PM) chrisoelmueller: yeah, 'soon'ish
(07:05:13 PM) Kilian]: btw if you have a variable amount of canons for the frigate, we have to rerender the ship with the correct amount of canons
(07:05:33 PM) gscai: Kilian]: we already have that problem
(07:05:44 PM) totycro_: what should be the default? weapons or no weapons?
(07:05:52 PM) Andre_Re: we could also add the smoke dynamically
(07:05:53 PM) Kilian]: weapon plz
(07:05:58 PM) gscai: no weapons
(07:06:08 PM) chrisoelmueller: which default?
(07:06:08 PM) Andre_Re: no weapons, I think
(07:06:21 PM) Kilian]: default amount of canons for the frigate
(07:06:41 PM) totycro_: what happens if you just click ok in the mod tab
(07:06:59 PM) Andre_Re: which mod tab?
(07:07:02 PM) chrisoelmueller: you get a slider with values 0..max_possible (for this ship)
(07:07:02 PM) chrisoelmueller: and the default value is max_ as long as you have those cannons in stock
(07:07:02 PM) chrisoelmueller: else the max amount of your cannons
(07:07:24 PM) Kilian]: chrisoelmueller: +1
(07:07:27 PM) totycro_: chrisoelmueller: +1
(07:07:31 PM) Andre_Re: I'm against any automatic change
(07:07:38 PM) Andre_Re: this would confuse the player
(07:07:42 PM) totycro_: Andre_Re: that's the tab where you select the ship modifications
(07:07:54 PM) chrisoelmueller: you get a slider with values 0..max_possible (for this ship)
(07:07:57 PM) gscai: the last bit is going to be annoying if you don't have a lot of cannons but expect to get them soon
(07:07:57 PM) chrisoelmueller: and the default value is max_ as long as you have those cannons in stock
(07:08:02 PM) Kilian]: in my opinion its confusing to build a warship which isnt able to fight by default
(07:08:02 PM) chrisoelmueller: else the max amount of your cannons
(07:08:04 PM) totycro_: Andre_Re: in general, i agree with you, but here we get very reasonable values imo
(07:08:12 PM) chrisoelmueller: Kilian]: that.
(07:08:19 PM) totycro_: the amount of cannons could be very highlightes
(07:08:21 PM) Andre_Re: there should be more of a distinct warning message ("You don't have enoough cannons in stock to build this ship")
(07:08:21 PM) totycro_: *highlighted
(07:08:41 PM) chrisoelmueller: Andre_Re: well, the slider would not be at max_ which is rather clear already
(07:09:01 PM) totycro_: just to note: "a war ship always should be able to fight" VS "war ships should be buildable without cannons"
(07:09:11 PM) totycro_: obviously, both is not possible
(07:09:31 PM) Andre_Re: should we use a relative scale instead?
(07:09:34 PM) gscai: it sounds reasonable to use frigates as trade ships if you intend to arm them soon after
(07:09:39 PM) totycro_: i like chrisoelmueller's compromise on this, if the number of cannons is clearly visible
(07:09:57 PM) Andre_Re: like empty – 1/4 – 1/2 - 3/4 - full
(07:10:13 PM) Andre_Re: this would work for any ship type
(07:10:19 PM) gscai: how about using the amount you used for the last ship of the same kind?
(07:10:42 PM) Andre_Re: gscai: this would change the slider for any tsype of ship
(07:10:48 PM) totycro_: i think you usually want max
(07:10:50 PM) totycro_: or 0
(07:11:20 PM) Kilian]: brb
(07:11:20 PM) Andre_Re: and, it would break or concept of the one click building
(07:11:41 PM) Andre_Re: you would have to select the type first, then set the slider and the start the building
(07:11:48 PM) totycro_: Andre_Re: it wouldn't with reasonable default values
(07:11:48 PM) StefanUH [bc1a2762@gateway/web/freenode/ip.188.26.39.98] entered the room.
(07:11:59 PM) gscai: you have to choose which type of ship you are building anyway
(07:12:09 PM) gscai: as in huker/frigate
(07:12:17 PM) totycro_: a compromise for now would be a second entry in the war tab: unarmed frigate
(07:12:21 PM) chrisoelmueller: heya StefanUH 
(07:12:25 PM) Andre_Re: didn't we had a one click solution?
(07:12:27 PM) chrisoelmueller: totycro_: uuh, no
(07:12:38 PM) Andre_Re: I haven't built a ship for a rather long time :P
(07:12:56 PM) StefanUH: hello!
(07:13:05 PM) Andre_Re: hello StefanUH
(07:13:09 PM) gscai: Andre_Re: you choose the type of ship you want to build, not just 'any ship is fine, thanks'
(07:13:35 PM) Andre_Re: no, that's not what I meant
(07:13:39 PM) gscai: totycro_: an unarmed frigate sounds nice for now although the name is confusing
(07:13:54 PM) Andre_Re: I thought, we had a list of all available ships and as soon as you click on one, it starts building
(07:14:06 PM) gscai: we do
(07:14:25 PM) chrisoelmueller: i guess we're at the point of misunderstanding each other
(07:14:26 PM) chrisoelmueller: what gscai suggested sounds good, just store the last value
(07:14:30 PM) chrisoelmueller: since the 'modification' tab depends on the ship type in any case, why not just do that
(07:14:33 PM) Andre_Re: so now, if you add a separate slider for any type, you would break that concept
(07:14:37 PM) chrisoelmueller: it will not block players in any way
(07:14:46 PM) chrisoelmueller: Andre_Re: no, that's not how it will work.
(07:14:59 PM) Andre_Re: except you add a separate slider for each ship type and yozu place them like in a table
(07:15:40 PM) Andre_Re: chrisoelmueller: storing the last value is a great idea
(07:15:49 PM) Kilian]: in general, its not really important what kind of solution we visual implement, after a short time a lot of people will tell us, what they except how it should work
(07:16:09 PM) Kilian]: kind of the results of totycros usability test
(07:16:24 PM) Andre_Re: the problem is, if we use absolute values, the slider would jiggle around all the time you select another type
(07:16:42 PM) Kilian]: we use absolute values everywhere
(07:16:43 PM) chrisoelmueller: (status update: disconnect #20 after meeting start)
(07:16:57 PM) Andre_Re: a relative, percentage or fraction based value would solve that
(07:17:02 PM) chrisoelmueller: absolute values are fine with the current amount of cannons
(07:17:23 PM) totycro_: k, it's now nearly 20 minues for a 10 min topic
(07:17:40 PM) totycro_: how about we do a provisionary implementation and change/discuss it later as needed?
(07:17:55 PM) Andre_Re: totycro_: agree
(07:17:58 PM) totycro_: the general concept of cannons as mod seems to be liked by a number of people
(07:17:59 PM) Kilian]: totycro_: +1
(07:18:08 PM) gscai: fine with me
(07:18:14 PM) Kilian]: <>
(07:18:17 PM) chrisoelmueller: later on we might not want to have the options 1,2,3,4,..,20, just have 0,5,10,15,20 there.
(07:18:17 PM) chrisoelmueller: but that's no urgent issue in any way
(07:18:17 PM) chrisoelmueller: and can be discussed later
(07:18:17 PM) chrisoelmueller: (read: after implementing the basic idea)
(07:18:18 PM) ronnie_c: <>
(07:18:19 PM) chrisoelmueller: +1 <>
(07:18:32 PM) Andre_Re: <>
(07:18:34 PM) totycro_: #agreed we'll do a provisionary implementation of this with weapons as first modification
(07:19:05 PM) totycro_: #topic Collection of pigs and cattle for slaughter
(07:19:05 PM) UH-Guard!~unknown-h@cl-1281.dus-01.de.sixxs.net: UH-Guard has changed the topic to: Collection of pigs and cattle for slaughter
(07:19:08 PM) totycro_: gscai: 
(07:19:28 PM) gscai: these are currently the only resources produced by farms that can not be picked up by the general collectors
(07:20:12 PM) gscai: the problem is that you have to have the butcheries right around next to the farm for it to work
(07:20:23 PM) gscai: which isn't required for anything else
(07:20:31 PM) Andre_Re: what about adding cattle drives?
(07:20:47 PM) Beliar [~Beliar@a89-182-49-87.net-htp.de] entered the room.
(07:21:18 PM) totycro_: making them tradeable (i.e. collectable) is unrealistic, but i think we should do it
(07:21:27 PM) Kilian]: totycro_: +1
(07:21:33 PM) totycro_: in a recent game, i've had issues with buchery/farm productivity, this would help here
(07:21:40 PM) gscai: I agree
(07:22:01 PM) gscai: theoretically we could say that the animal was killed at the farm and the butchery did 'processing' to make it into food
(07:22:10 PM) totycro_: chrisoelmueller: didn't you have something to say about this?
(07:22:29 PM) Kilian]: totycro_: lets wait
(07:22:38 PM) Kilian]: maybe hes offiline again
(07:23:33 PM) totycro_: hmm.. it sucks, but we can't wait indefinitely
(07:23:43 PM) Kilian]: yeah ...
(07:24:08 PM) Kilian]: <>
(07:25:15 PM) Andre_Re: <>
(07:25:16 PM) gscai: go on to map editor and return to this when he comes back?
(07:25:28 PM) Andre_Re: gscai: +1
(07:25:31 PM) karottenreibe: gscai: +1
(07:25:38 PM) totycro_: #topic Creating a map editor
(07:25:39 PM) UH-Guard!~unknown-h@cl-1281.dus-01.de.sixxs.net: UH-Guard has changed the topic to: Creating a map editor
(07:25:39 PM) totycro_: ronnie_c: 
(07:25:41 PM) totycro_: karottenreibe: 
(07:25:59 PM) totycro_: please briefly describe what you are doing
(07:26:14 PM) karottenreibe: right, so we're working on the map editor as part of a project on university
(07:26:30 PM) karottenreibe: the general idea is to take the existing fifedit and make it usable by adding plugins to it
(07:26:44 PM) karottenreibe: so, one plugin to load the UH map format and one to save it at the least
(07:27:04 PM) karottenreibe: the current status is: we looked at the code and it is possible
(07:27:31 PM) karottenreibe: I also fixed up a script to start the editor and a sample plugin to show that it can load the UH code and do something ;-)
(07:27:41 PM) gscai: what is the map editor supposed to do?
(07:27:43 PM) totycro_: sounds great :)
(07:27:54 PM) karottenreibe: it's used to create the islands for a start
(07:28:12 PM) karottenreibe: later we could add support for placing buildings or things like that if needed
(07:28:44 PM) totycro_: ambient objects such as trees and mountains are currently just buildings
(07:28:48 PM) totycro_: also fish
(07:28:58 PM) totycro_: do you already have a vague roadmap with milestones?
(07:29:03 PM) karottenreibe: ah, good to know, so that should be high on the priority list then
(07:29:25 PM) karottenreibe: the first milestone was getting it to accept the plugins, next is getting it to load an exsiting maps ground tiles
(07:29:30 PM) karottenreibe: after that we haven't fixed anything yet
(07:29:59 PM) totycro_: it might be a good idea to develop the ui a bit iteratively
(07:30:11 PM) totycro_: with vague designs and feedback, then more concrete desgin
(07:30:32 PM) totycro_: are you working with the new tileset design, that's not yet in master?
(07:30:47 PM) karottenreibe: yes, we're working with the development branch
(07:30:53 PM) karottenreibe: nihathrael thought that best as well
(07:31:03 PM) totycro_: great, that's probably being merged to master soon
(07:31:07 PM) karottenreibe: great
(07:31:32 PM) karottenreibe: so, we also removed the full copy of fifedit from the git repo and now only store the plugins there
(07:31:35 PM) karottenreibe: is that ok?
(07:31:36 PM) totycro_: how much time do you approximately have and when is your deadline?
(07:32:01 PM) karottenreibe: deadline is the start of the next semester (roughly), so that's some time in february
(07:32:21 PM) totycro_: karottenreibe: it should work with vanilla fife
(07:32:25 PM) karottenreibe: we get 10 credits that's officially equal to 250 hours per person, but we can spend time as we choose
(07:32:59 PM) ronnie_c: and with the schedule being quite full it doesn't have to be 250 manhours for my taste
(07:33:00 PM) totycro_: on a side note: we only got 6 for the whole multiplayer system..
(07:33:09 PM) karottenreibe: totycro_: I wrote a simple script to start the editor with the plugins from the UH repository. that works with teh current fife revision
(07:33:28 PM) totycro_: with removing fifeedit you mean old code in the current uh repo?
(07:33:33 PM) karottenreibe: right, I think we have enough time to get something decent and usable done
(07:33:35 PM) ronnie_c: yes
(07:33:42 PM) totycro_: k, that's no problem i guess
(07:33:57 PM) karottenreibe: totycro_: we submitted some of the changes nihathrael did to the editor to fife as a patch
(07:34:05 PM) karottenreibe: because we also use them
(07:34:38 PM) mihaibivol [~mihai@p16.eregie.pub.ro] entered the room.
(07:34:57 PM) ronnie_c: Basically, the idea for today's presentation was to get as much feedback from you regarding the development process + important aspects (such as not to forget fish) ...
(07:34:58 PM) totycro_: do you work in a branch
(07:35:00 PM) totycro_: ?
(07:35:03 PM) ronnie_c: yes
(07:35:16 PM) karottenreibe: yep, it's in my repo on github, the editor branch
(07:35:22 PM) totycro_: i'm not sure what to tell, but please ask any question any time here
(07:35:30 PM) karottenreibe: totycro_: sure thing
(07:35:48 PM) ronnie_c: do you think that the planned compression will interfere with our work?
(07:36:06 PM) totycro_: no, it would just happen at the end of saveing/start of loading
(07:36:26 PM) karottenreibe: that's ok, as long as we can just use some classes/functions to do that job from the editor plugins
(07:36:31 PM) totycro_: ah, the big sea tiles might be an issue
(07:36:39 PM) totycro_: most tiles are just 1x1 images
(07:36:50 PM) totycro_: at the sea, there currently still are fake tiles
(07:37:05 PM) totycro_: but i think we should move on with the meeting, we could talk about it later
(07:37:05 PM) karottenreibe: totycro_: is the water actually stored in the savegame files? isn't that just set by the game wherever there's no land?
(07:37:07 PM) gscai: the sea tiles aren't even part of the saved game, are they?
(07:37:18 PM) karottenreibe: gscai: that was my understanding
(07:37:23 PM) totycro_: ah, right
(07:37:23 PM) karottenreibe: in that case it wouldn't matter
(07:37:42 PM) totycro_: but it might be useful to have a different sea somewhere
(07:38:02 PM) gscai: what do you mean?
(07:38:03 PM) totycro_: also, there are some ideas to use big tiles in the normal land
(07:38:17 PM) totycro_: currently, the deep sea is the same everywhere
(07:38:17 PM) ronnie_c: ok
(07:38:30 PM) totycro_: there might be deeper deep sea, or more shallow deep sea some time
(07:38:35 PM) Andre_Re: I think we shoul talk about that on another place
(07:38:37 PM) totycro_: with different properties for e.g. fish
(07:38:38 PM) karottenreibe: totycro_: i think we should first concentrate on getting the islands to work and then adjust if any of this is implemented in the game actually
(07:38:51 PM) gscai: Andre_Re: agreed
(07:38:52 PM) totycro_: k, i just meant that it should be as flexible as possible
(07:39:00 PM) totycro_: i'll shut up now then :)
(07:39:01 PM) totycro_: <>
(07:39:04 PM) karottenreibe: we'll keep an eye out for that
(07:39:07 PM) Andre_Re: <>
(07:39:08 PM) ronnie_c: ok
(07:39:11 PM) karottenreibe: what's <> by the way?
(07:39:14 PM) ronnie_c: wait a sec
(07:39:20 PM) ronnie_c: <> change of topics
(07:39:23 PM) karottenreibe: ah ok
(07:39:25 PM) karottenreibe: <>
(07:39:27 PM) totycro_: karottenreibe: <> = "i don't have anything more to say and think we should move on to the next topic"
(07:39:42 PM) GreyGhost_ [~greyghost@triband-mum-59.183.4.31.mtnl.net.in] entered the room.
(07:39:49 PM) Andre_Re: hey GreyGhost
(07:40:05 PM) GreyGhost_: hey
(07:40:05 PM) totycro_: so, there are 3 topics of minor importance now
(07:40:13 PM) Kilian]: totycro_: wait!
(07:40:17 PM) Andre_Re: ok, let's proceed
(07:40:20 PM) Kilian]: ronnie_c: want to say something
(07:40:46 PM) ronnie_c: I am just asking this because we won't receive a very good grade if our changes are not implemented into the master branch
(07:41:12 PM) totycro_: ronnie_c: sry, i thought you meant the line you said after 'wait a sec'
(07:41:27 PM) ronnie_c: You plan on integrating it for the 2012.1 release and there is no one else currently working on this, right?
(07:41:39 PM) Kilian]: ronnie_c: both true
(07:41:41 PM) totycro_: yes
(07:41:46 PM) ronnie_c: ok thx thats all :-)
(07:41:48 PM) ronnie_c: <>
(07:41:52 PM) Kilian]: its already november
(07:41:56 PM) totycro_: it's yet unclear when 2012.1 will be though
(07:42:00 PM) GreyGhost_: totycro_, can't the editor work with layers? that way the botom layer is for the fake tiles (even if we use for the island)>
(07:42:01 PM) GreyGhost_: ?
(07:42:12 PM) Kilian]: i think there will not be a 2012.1 release before march
(07:42:22 PM) karottenreibe: GreyGhost_ it has layer support
(07:42:53 PM) karottenreibe: Kilian]: but you could merge the changes before the release?
(07:42:58 PM) GreyGhost left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 240 seconds).
(07:42:59 PM) karottenreibe: that would be sufficient for our grading
(07:43:14 PM) totycro_: karottenreibe: yes
(07:43:18 PM) Kilian]: sure, if you are ready we will merge it into master
(07:43:26 PM) ronnie_c: cool
(07:43:26 PM) karottenreibe: great
(07:43:28 PM) karottenreibe: <>
(07:43:31 PM) GreyGhost_: karottenreibe, oki.. 
(07:43:38 PM) ronnie_c: ah, and are you doing some kind of code review?
(07:43:39 PM) totycro_: it would be a good thing to show up regulary to present changes and get feedback, then i can almost guarantee you to get merged
(07:44:08 PM) totycro_: ronnie_c: i guess some people could at some points review the code
(07:44:22 PM) totycro_: k, should we move on now?
(07:44:26 PM) Andre_Re: <>
(07:44:26 PM) Kilian]: <>
(07:44:27 PM) karottenreibe: <>
(07:44:28 PM) ronnie_c: totycro_: yep
(07:44:33 PM) GreyGhost_: <>
(07:44:40 PM) gscai: <>
(07:44:44 PM) ronnie_c: <>
(07:44:45 PM) totycro_: are you tired or anything, or should we do all 3 topics that remain?
(07:44:54 PM) Kilian]: looks like chrisoelmueller is lost
(07:44:57 PM) totycro_: 4, actually
(07:45:00 PM) GreyGhost_ is now known as GreyGhost
(07:45:21 PM) GreyGhost left the room (quit: Changing host).
(07:45:21 PM) GreyGhost [~greyghost@unaffiliated/greyghost] entered the room.
(07:45:26 PM) totycro_: please post a short message indicating your motivational status :)
(07:45:33 PM) gscai: we can do the ones that don't depend a lot on chrisoelmueller
(07:45:39 PM) GreyGhost: go on i'd say
(07:45:39 PM) Kilian]: iam alive, go further
(07:45:45 PM) karottenreibe: go on
(07:45:49 PM) Andre_Re: <>
(07:45:50 PM) gscai: janebot: are you alive?
(07:45:51 PM) janebot: gscai: Maybe I am, maybe I'm not. 
(07:45:58 PM) totycro_: #topic Compression for savegames/maps
(07:45:58 PM) UH-Guard!~unknown-h@cl-1281.dus-01.de.sixxs.net: UH-Guard has changed the topic to: Compression for savegames/maps
(07:46:11 PM) Andre_Re: good topic
(07:46:17 PM) totycro_: i guess that's most relevant for savegame, we don't have big maps so far
(07:46:23 PM) Andre_Re: we once talked about compressing the files using lzma
(07:46:26 PM) totycro_: savegames are 300K-1.5MB
(07:46:36 PM) totycro_: on slow connections, it still sucks to upload them
(07:46:44 PM) totycro_: bz2 is natively supported by python
(07:46:56 PM) Andre_Re: but then we moved that to the future becausde it's easier to work with the uncompressed files in that early stage of development
(07:47:19 PM) gscai: I'm fine compression as long as I can still read/write non-compressed versions
(07:47:23 PM) Andre_Re: totycro_: I think we also added a lzma lib once
(07:47:31 PM) Andre_Re: there are at least some test files
(07:47:38 PM) totycro_: raw: 1.4M, bz2: 450K, xz: 266K
(07:47:48 PM) Andre_Re: xz is?
(07:47:59 PM) totycro_: that new great compression algo
(07:48:07 PM) totycro_: gscai: +1
(07:48:11 PM) Kilian]: did anyone tested lzma2 ?
(07:48:13 PM) Andre_Re: better then lzma?
(07:48:17 PM) gscai: my idea: read compressed/non-compressed versions, write according to the settings
(07:48:20 PM) Kilian]: xz is lzma
(07:48:33 PM) Andre_Re: ah, ok
(07:48:35 PM) totycro_: so anyone against this feature?
(07:48:39 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, does it cause too much overhead compresssing or decompressing?
(07:48:39 PM) Andre_Re: but why xz?
(07:48:50 PM) GreyGhost: i mean that xz one
(07:49:04 PM) totycro_: GreyGhost: it would only be done once per save/load
(07:49:21 PM) totycro_: before selecting the algo, we should test the speed and check concerning distribution anyway
(07:49:29 PM) totycro_: which we don't have to discuss here, i think
(07:49:31 PM) Kilian]: Andre_Re: xz is an archiv file contain compressed data by lzma algo
(07:49:34 PM) GreyGhost: till its not too noticable it would be great 
(07:49:47 PM) Andre_Re: totycro_: the speed should not be influenced too much
(07:49:48 PM) GreyGhost: and about logfiles ..
(07:49:50 PM) totycro_: GreyGhost: it probably will be disableable as developer setting
(07:49:51 PM) Kilian]: chrisoelmueller: told me lzma algo is really slow at his machine
(07:49:54 PM) totycro_: (i.e., not present in the gui)
(07:50:02 PM) Andre_Re: compressing a 2 MB file won't take more trhen half a second
(07:50:27 PM) totycro_: half a second is already very bad in a normal game (every ~5 min perhaps for autosave)
(07:50:32 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, logfile compressin too disable.. cos i culdnt manage to extract the corrupted file last time :(
(07:50:37 PM) gscai: you can save an uncompressed file and then compress it in a separate process => no significant delay
(07:50:48 PM) Kilian]: and not everyone has a good machien at home
(07:50:50 PM) totycro_: GreyGhost: yes, that's the next subtopic
(07:50:52 PM) Andre_Re: gscai: right
(07:51:08 PM) Andre_Re: that should be the way we do it
(07:51:10 PM) totycro_: #agreed we want savegame compression, details will be worked out later
(07:51:19 PM) Andre_Re: <>
(07:51:22 PM) Kilian]: <>
(07:51:24 PM) gscai: <>
(07:51:30 PM) totycro_: #topic Compression of logfiles 
(07:51:30 PM) UH-Guard!~unknown-h@cl-1281.dus-01.de.sixxs.net: UH-Guard has changed the topic to: Compression of logfiles
(07:51:47 PM) totycro_: that's already implemented, but can lead to problems at crashes it seems
(07:51:56 PM) totycro_: GreyGhost: do you still have the broken logfile?
(07:51:57 PM) Andre_Re: the question here is, if that would make any senswe
(07:52:04 PM) gscai: can -> does
(07:52:05 PM) Kilian]: Andre_Re: sure
(07:52:14 PM) Kilian]: i have logs that are more then 750mb
(07:52:29 PM) Andre_Re: Kilian]: sure, but then should we compress them?
(07:52:44 PM) totycro_: wasn't there this instance, where one uncompressor couldn't handle the file but another one could?
(07:52:45 PM) Andre_Re: we can't do that after the game crashes
(07:53:09 PM) gscai: actually, we can do it after the game crashes
(07:53:12 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, nope.. :(
(07:53:18 PM) Andre_Re: gscai: how?
(07:53:19 PM) gscai: as long as the os doesn't
(07:53:29 PM) totycro_: for segfaults, we can't
(07:53:36 PM) gscai: launch uh from within a logger program
(07:53:38 PM) Andre_Re: well, you could do it inside the batch or sh file
(07:53:39 PM) totycro_: python exceptions shouldn't be a problem
(07:53:48 PM) gscai: so the logger handles the log writing
(07:53:58 PM) totycro_: gscai: k, that would still work
(07:54:15 PM) gscai: if uh closes/crashes then the logger program finds out and closes the file
(07:54:36 PM) Andre_Re: which is the logger program?
(07:54:36 PM) GreyGhost: gscai, sounds good
(07:54:44 PM) totycro_: i'd rather have that than no compression
(07:54:57 PM) GreyGhost: compression++
(07:55:04 PM) totycro_: we currently use a gzip stream compressor in python, maybe there's also a safe version
(07:55:19 PM) totycro_: any objections?
(07:55:31 PM) gscai: it would be nicer to have both but crash-proof compression would be better than nothing
(07:55:50 PM) totycro_: what do we do for 2011.3?
(07:56:22 PM) Andre_Re: when will the release be? remember, that we need enought time to test such a feature on different operating systems
(07:56:34 PM) Kilian]: brb
(07:56:44 PM) Kilian]: iam fine with gzip for now
(07:56:44 PM) totycro_: i guess we'll release it when it's done, could be in 7 days
(07:56:52 PM) Kilian]: lzma would need a new dep
(07:57:12 PM) Andre_Re: Kilian]: sure, but it compresses much higher
(07:57:17 PM) gscai: I don't think we can have (a properly tested) version for 2011.3
(07:57:25 PM) totycro_: for log compression, lzma is probably way too slow
(07:57:33 PM) gscai: so the question is default compressed or not
(07:57:50 PM) totycro_: how frequent are the issues with the logfiles?
(07:58:02 PM) totycro_: it seems to work fine here
(07:58:21 PM) Andre_Re: hm, we could also talk about deleting the log files if nothing happened during the game
(07:58:24 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, are the corrupted files extractable forcefully?
(07:58:45 PM) totycro_: GreyGhost: i've no idea
(07:58:54 PM) gscai: Andre_Re: if something weird but not a crash happens then it would be a pain
(07:59:34 PM) Andre_Re: gscai: right
(07:59:38 PM) totycro_: no one seems to have a strong opinion on the plan for 2011.3..
(07:59:39 PM) nihathrael: moin all
(07:59:45 PM) GreyGhost: anyway we should stick with present setup for 2011.3 i guess unless we can get it well tested before release..
(07:59:46 PM) Andre_Re: hi
(07:59:48 PM) karottenreibe: hi nihathrael
(07:59:52 PM) GreyGhost: hey nihathrael 
(07:59:56 PM) ronnie_c: hi.
(08:00:02 PM) totycro_: nihathrael: what do you think about releasing 2011.3 with log compression?
(08:00:02 PM) mihaibivol: hi nihathrael 
(08:00:08 PM) StefanUH: hi
(08:00:10 PM) Andre_Re: I would assign the compressing to 2012.1
(08:00:16 PM) totycro_: there are reports of corrupted logfiles
(08:00:51 PM) totycro_: if no one has any opinion, then i'll turn it off to be on the safe side
(08:01:05 PM) gscai: I'm fine with that
(08:01:22 PM) nihathrael: corrupted logfiles are of no good to us
(08:01:39 PM) totycro_: <>
(08:01:41 PM) nihathrael: the question is if we can just enable it for everyone, because it will fillup peoples harddrive prettyb adly if they play for 2 hours
(08:01:53 PM) Kilian]: hi nihathrael
(08:02:00 PM) totycro_: what was the compression rate of gzip again?
(08:02:19 PM) totycro_: the situation is a bit better due to cutting of strings (~40% less as wild guess)
(08:02:24 PM) Andre_Re: what about deleting every log antry that is older then 30 minutes or so?
(08:02:27 PM) totycro_: if someone provides me with another logfile, i can recheck 
(08:02:31 PM) Kilian]: totycro_: afaik 100mb log too 3mb
(08:03:04 PM) totycro_: it seems we don't have good data on how often corruptions appear
(08:03:20 PM) karottenreibe: Andre_Re: sounds like a job for logrotate
(08:03:23 PM) Andre_Re: lzma 18311 KB to 107 KB
(08:03:37 PM) totycro_: will logging be again enabled by default on win and disabled for everyone else?
(08:03:59 PM) nihathrael: that is the question
(08:04:04 PM) GreyGhost: why windows in particular?
(08:04:14 PM) nihathrael: on linux it is not
(08:04:18 PM) Andre_Re: bzip2 to 103 KB, but takes a lot more time
(08:04:20 PM) totycro_: because they don't work with the command line like the rest of the world..
(08:04:21 PM) nihathrael: but on windows we used to run uh with -d on releases
(08:04:22 PM) Andre_Re: (on windows)
(08:04:32 PM) GreyGhost: hmm oki
(08:04:55 PM) Andre_Re: 4 seconds (2 cores) vs 10 seconds (6 cores)
(08:05:03 PM) nihathrael: maybe we should provide a second shortcut in the menu, with uh-debug?
(08:05:04 PM) Andre_Re: right is bz2
(08:05:09 PM) totycro_: k, then deleting old logfiles? older than a few days?
(08:05:18 PM) nihathrael: which people can run if they run into trouble
(08:05:22 PM) totycro_: nihathrael: i don't think people would run that?
(08:05:34 PM) Andre_Re: totycro_: +1
(08:05:51 PM) Andre_Re: it's a nice feature but noone would actually use it
(08:06:14 PM) GreyGhost: extreme idea.. cut off the starting part of the log as it goes increasing in size..
(08:06:19 PM) nihathrael: it is so they can use it if we tell them too
(08:06:24 PM) nihathrael: when they come tous
(08:06:31 PM) totycro_: so, what about disabling compression, working a bit on the log string size and removing very old logfiles?
(08:06:36 PM) Andre_Re: GreyGhost: that's what I said
(08:06:46 PM) nihathrael: of course nobody will run with debug in normal mode, but noone on linux does that es well
(08:07:12 PM) Kilian]: yep, no player would do that
(08:07:21 PM) GreyGhost: Andre_Re, oh i missed that..
(08:07:44 PM) Andre_Re: I said something like cut everything that is older then 30 minutes or so
(08:08:08 PM) nihathrael: is there any reason we should force windows user to play in logfile mode, and not doing that with linux users?
(08:08:20 PM) Kilian]: no idea
(08:08:23 PM) Andre_Re: or limit the file to a size or x mb
(08:08:29 PM) totycro_: one aspect of it was that win users used to need the bat
(08:08:30 PM) gscai: nihathrael: no
(08:08:36 PM) Andre_Re: if it gets too big, the first lines are cut away
(08:08:58 PM) nihathrael: yes, so we can make two bats
(08:09:03 PM) nihathrael: and link both of them in the windows menu
(08:09:05 PM) totycro_: there have been bugs where we needed to go deep into the logfile
(08:09:05 PM) Andre_Re: totycro_: you don't need the bat file
(08:09:07 PM) nihathrael: so no problem to run in it on deman
(08:09:08 PM) nihathrael: d
(08:09:24 PM) Andre_Re: you can just doulbe click the py file and it works just as fine as with the bat
(08:09:35 PM) gscai: Andre_Re: system dependent
(08:09:42 PM) totycro_: clicking on the py file is without debug by default
(08:09:46 PM) Andre_Re: the problem is, however, that the dos box disappears, as soon as the program crashes
(08:10:14 PM) gscai: nihathrael: 2 bat files sounds good to me
(08:10:35 PM) Andre_Re: but we could also use a simple lnk file with the parameters to write the log
(08:11:02 PM) totycro_: #agreed logging will work without compression in 2011.3
(08:11:13 PM) Andre_Re: we could add to lnk files to the start menu, one with "Debug Mode"
(08:11:13 PM) Kilian]: <>
(08:11:18 PM) gscai: <>
(08:11:20 PM) Andre_Re: <>
(08:11:21 PM) nihathrael: <>
(08:11:22 PM) totycro_: #agreed for windows, we'll provide starting modes for with_logfile and without_logfiles
(08:11:32 PM) GreyGhost: <>
(08:11:37 PM) StefanUH: <>
(08:11:40 PM) totycro_: chrisoelmueller still seems to be not here, but i'll like to talk about
(08:11:48 PM) totycro_: #topic 2011.3 Crowdsourcing ideas
(08:11:48 PM) UH-Guard!~unknown-h@cl-1281.dus-01.de.sixxs.net: UH-Guard has changed the topic to: 2011.3 Crowdsourcing ideas
(08:11:51 PM) totycro_: at least brieflt
(08:11:56 PM) totycro_: *briefly
(08:12:03 PM) Andre_Re: what's the idea?
(08:12:07 PM) totycro_: we will need a video, and more voices would be nice
(08:12:18 PM) totycro_: the point is to make players do it
(08:12:25 PM) Andre_Re: video? you mean startup video?
(08:12:31 PM) totycro_: gameplay video
(08:12:47 PM) totycro_: for propaganda purposes
(08:12:58 PM) Andre_Re: ah, I thought ingame stuff
(08:13:13 PM) GreyGhost: yeah sounds good .. maybe even get a YouTube channel if we can and upload some good ones there
(08:13:18 PM) Andre_Re: propaganda is always great
(08:13:20 PM) totycro_: for the last 2 releases or so, we were unable to do that ourselves
(08:13:23 PM) nihathrael: we have a youtube channel :)
(08:13:35 PM) Andre_Re: GreyGhost: we could just feature them there
(08:13:43 PM) totycro_: my view is that someone would need to manage that
(08:13:45 PM) GreyGhost: ahh never knew that ..
(08:13:48 PM) nihathrael: yes i think it would be agreat idea if players could create some, we'll link them on our hp and on our youtube channel
(08:14:01 PM) totycro_: if we announce the video recording thing at the release annoucement, some players might already jump in
(08:14:02 PM) Andre_Re: GreyGhost: it's unknownhorizonsgame I think
(08:15:00 PM) totycro_: i'm not sure what chrisoelmueller wanted to say exactly..
(08:15:26 PM) totycro_: who would care to take that into his/her hands?
(08:15:37 PM) totycro_: as in, answer questions of users about it
(08:15:44 PM) totycro_: put the videos online, watching them beforehand
(08:15:55 PM) totycro_: writing a short announcement
(08:15:58 PM) Andre_Re: the main problem is, that you cannot enforce people to make such videos
(08:16:22 PM) totycro_: i think it's worth a try, we'll see how it works out
(08:16:25 PM) Andre_Re: however, we already hade a few hands-on videos or video reviews
(08:16:26 PM) Kilian]: half of the vids at YT of UH arent made by us
(08:16:30 PM) GreyGhost: Andre_Re, yeah .. but there are usually enthusiatic ppl who will do it on their own..
(08:17:16 PM) totycro_: any more thoughts on this?
(08:17:19 PM) Andre_Re: by the way voice stuff
(08:17:31 PM) Andre_Re: what happend to this radio moderator?
(08:17:38 PM) Andre_Re: do we already have results?
(08:17:59 PM) GreyGhost: we can also start a forum topic where users can post their settlement screenshots ..
(08:18:12 PM) totycro_: i think we already did that once
(08:18:25 PM) ronnie_c: totycro_:  right
(08:18:30 PM) ronnie_c: totycro_:  i remember that
(08:18:31 PM) Andre_Re: GreyGhost: good idea, we already tried that a few years ago, but back then UH wasn't popular enough
(08:19:27 PM) totycro_: we could try to develop ideas in the next ideas, also with chrisoelmueller 
(08:19:41 PM) totycro_: i think this doesn't need a meeting decision
(08:19:45 PM) totycro_: <>
(08:19:49 PM) GreyGhost: <>
(08:19:54 PM) Andre_Re: hm, we have bigh maps and big islands now
(08:20:05 PM) Kilian]: <>
(08:20:09 PM) Andre_Re: it shouldn't be too hard to built decent settlements
(08:20:27 PM) Andre_Re: I think a competition "most beautiful settlement" won't be too badf
(08:20:32 PM) Andre_Re: <>
(08:20:40 PM) totycro_: there's still 1 topic by chrisoelmueller, namely "Extreme resolution brainstorming". tbh, i'd like to move it to the next meeting
(08:20:47 PM) nihathrael: <>
(08:20:57 PM) totycro_: is anyone against that?
(08:21:00 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, +1
(08:21:02 PM) Kilian]: totycro_: +1
(08:21:03 PM) Andre_Re: nope, proceed
(08:21:38 PM) totycro_: nihathrael: do you want to do a gfx report?
(08:21:52 PM) totycro_: (that should be a new permanent topic to focus on getting gfx for 2012.10
(08:21:57 PM) nihathrael: yes
(08:22:00 PM) Andre_Re: brb
(08:22:04 PM) totycro_: #topic Graphics report
(08:22:04 PM) UH-Guard!~unknown-h@cl-1281.dus-01.de.sixxs.net: UH-Guard has changed the topic to: Graphics report
(08:22:16 PM) nihathrael: ok so this topic is new this week
(08:22:32 PM) nihathrael: the idea is that we figured one of the most pressing thigns for the next releases is new graphics after all
(08:22:38 PM) nihathrael: to get more buildings into the game
(08:23:04 PM) nihathrael: we collected a number of ideas on how to obtain these graphics during gsoc mentor summit
(08:23:33 PM) nihathrael: one thing that was brought up by a blender member wsa, that most graphics artists don't know that open sourcpe projects that need graphics even exist
(08:23:38 PM) nihathrael: so, they will not come to us
(08:23:47 PM) nihathrael: because they don't know we need their help
(08:23:51 PM) nihathrael: -> we need to go to them
(08:24:16 PM) nihathrael: before we can do this, we need some very strict lists of stuff that we need
(08:24:22 PM) nihathrael: which buildings/icons etc
(08:24:49 PM) nihathrael: then we need to document our graphics rendering setup (iirc there is a script somewhere that does in automatically, by oracdel)
(08:25:12 PM) Kilian]: we should a do metaticket called "Needed gfx" and link there deatild tickets for every small task
(08:25:20 PM) nihathrael: no, put it on the wiki
(08:25:24 PM) nihathrael: artists need wiki, not trac
(08:25:25 PM) Kilian]: and the atlas foo, i could do tahat
(08:25:31 PM) Kilian]: *that
(08:25:44 PM) nihathrael: we also need to try to move the graphics discussions to the forums
(08:26:00 PM) nihathrael: as that is the medium that artists are most familiar and comfortable with from what we heard
(08:26:09 PM) GreyGhost: and maybe a small description of what we want (maybe link  to existing gfx so they get idea of theme too)
(08:26:14 PM) Kilian]: ah, btw we can add a subforum for gfx there
(08:26:23 PM) Kilian]: GreyGhost: small description isnt enough
(08:26:23 PM) nihathrael: we need a "contributions" forum
(08:26:34 PM) nihathrael: i guess we can put all gfx stuff in there for now then
(08:27:26 PM) nihathrael: I'll try to start manageing the entire process a little this weke
(08:27:33 PM) nihathrael: and report here every week on how its going
(08:27:54 PM) nihathrael: judging from the next meeting page chrisoelmueller found some new possible menu backgrounds
(08:27:55 PM) nihathrael: http://minus.com/mGaSASUaD#1
(08:28:01 PM) totycro_: nihathrael: thx for that, it might really help with structuring it
(08:28:14 PM) totycro_: and especially linking gfx people into the dev process
(08:28:28 PM) GreyGhost: yeah i always wanted extra menu backgrounds.
(08:28:30 PM) nihathrael: we could allow multiple background images for the main menu
(08:28:33 PM) nihathrael: i think its a great idea
(08:28:50 PM) nihathrael: choosing a random one when the game starts sounds like a nice idea
(08:28:57 PM) GreyGhost: i had found some good ones while i was looking for present one .. will try n get my hands on them again..
(08:29:29 PM) nihathrael: i'll open a ticket for this on trac for 2012.1
(08:29:35 PM) Kilian]: http://forum.unknown-horizons.org/viewforum.php?f=38[1]
(08:29:45 PM) Kilian]: created a new forum
(08:29:58 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, we need to get those fish rendered with tile below it.. dont know where it goes.. trac ticket?
(08:30:15 PM) totycro_: GreyGhost: i don't know
(08:31:06 PM) totycro_: <>
(08:31:36 PM) nihathrael: Kilian]: great, thanks
(08:31:39 PM) nihathrael: <>
(08:31:49 PM) nihathrael: i'll keep you guys posted (and probably annoy you with boring tasks ;))
(08:32:00 PM) GreyGhost: nihathrael, also we will need to create a wiki page with where the news for "gfx artists wanted" should go.
(08:32:04 PM) totycro_: nihathrael: please do:)
(08:32:08 PM) GreyGhost: <>
(08:32:22 PM) totycro_: #topic Status update (including report of StefanUH) and Hallway chat
(08:32:22 PM) UH-Guard!~unknown-h@cl-1281.dus-01.de.sixxs.net: UH-Guard has changed the topic to: Status update (including report of StefanUH) and Hallway chat
(08:33:09 PM) StefanUH: wel my task is to chacnge how the diplomacy works
(08:33:15 PM) totycro_: i guess i did some fixes, the code should really be mature enough for the release now
(08:33:19 PM) StefanUH: looks, actually
(08:33:35 PM) nihathrael: #info Many fixes for the release were made this week
(08:33:43 PM) nihathrael: #info I'll build a new RC for windows this evening
(08:33:47 PM) totycro_: StefanUH: do you work with the design that's in the wiki?
(08:33:51 PM) Beliar_ [~Beliar@2001:0:5ef5:79fb:8000:eccd:a649:cea8] entered the room.
(08:33:52 PM) Beliar left the room (quit: Disconnected by services).
(08:33:55 PM) Beliar_ is now known as Beliar
(08:34:09 PM) StefanUH: totycro:yes
(08:34:09 PM) GreyGhost: i did couple of small bug fixes..
(08:34:30 PM) totycro_: StefanUH: what's your status now? have you run into any issues?
(08:34:37 PM) StefanUH: we managed to make the player emblems appear in a circle
(08:34:42 PM) CIA-79: unknown-horizons: GreyGhost master * rcd66a4b / (2 files): 
(08:34:42 PM) CIA-79: unknown-horizons: Fix #1210
(08:34:43 PM) CIA-79: unknown-horizons: Deselct everything while exiting selecition tool.
(08:34:43 PM) CIA-79: unknown-horizons: Use deselect_on_end to handle cases where selection should be retained (AttackingTool) - http://git.io/Sz_GFw
(08:34:59 PM) StefanUH: in a duumy dialog like the log book
(08:35:04 PM) StefanUH: *dummy
(08:35:09 PM) nihathrael: #info I wrote a personal report about the history of UH from my perspective. You can find the report here: https://github.com/nihathrael/uh-history/blob/master/report.pdf?raw=true[1]
(08:35:30 PM) StefanUH: *dialog that looks like the log book
(08:35:34 PM) Kilian]: can i move the GSOC2011 subforum to the Archiv ?
(08:35:42 PM) nihathrael: Kilian]: yes
(08:35:43 PM) totycro_: StefanUH: sounds nice
(08:35:47 PM) totycro_: where do you put the code?
(08:36:02 PM) StefanUH: we made a branch on github
(08:36:13 PM) nihathrael: StefanUH: great
(08:36:17 PM) nihathrael: can you #info the url?
(08:36:19 PM) StefanUH: it's called cdl
(08:36:55 PM) totycro_: or #link perhaps
(08:37:36 PM) Kilian]: nihathrael: nice work
(08:37:50 PM) totycro_: nihathrael: you could put that on the hp
(08:38:10 PM) nihathrael: totycro_: i was discussing that with chrisoelmueller, we might do that. We'll talk about that again this week i guess
(08:38:17 PM) nihathrael: or next meeting
(08:38:34 PM) nihathrael: we need to review it way more if we want to put it on the hp
(08:38:42 PM) Beliar_ [~Beliar@a89-182-49-87.net-htp.de] entered the room.
(08:38:42 PM) Beliar left the room (quit: Disconnected by services).
(08:38:44 PM) totycro_: or you could save it until we hit a dry spell concerning news posts
(08:38:45 PM) Beliar_ is now known as Beliar
(08:39:09 PM) nihathrael: then it wont be up to date anymore, but i guess i could update it if needed
(08:39:29 PM) nihathrael: StefanUH: is this your repository? https://github.com/WindRaven/unknown-horizons[1]
(08:39:51 PM) StefanUH: yup :)
(08:40:04 PM) nihathrael: great
(08:40:33 PM) nihathrael: #link StefanUH's work can be found here: https://github.com/WindRaven/unknown-horizons/tree/cdl[1]
(08:40:51 PM) totycro_: it might be a good idea to merge master into your branch regularly
(08:41:30 PM) StefanUH: you're right :)
(08:42:19 PM) totycro_: <>
(08:42:27 PM) nihathrael: <>
(08:42:34 PM) Kilian]: nihathrael: if its isnt final i would add in the conclusion the information from oloho how much money would be needed to rewrite UH
(08:42:55 PM) nihathrael: true, that would be interesting
(08:43:08 PM) StefanUH: i wanted to ask if we will keep the old diplomacy layout
(08:43:13 PM) Kilian]: nihathrael: http://www.ohloh.net/p/unknown-horizons/estimated_cost[1]
(08:43:15 PM) nihathrael: it is final in the sense that i have commited it an the university, but that doesn't meen it can't be changed
(08:43:25 PM) totycro_: StefanUH: i think your design will replace the current one
(08:43:37 PM) Kilian]: $ 767,390 :D
(08:43:51 PM) GreyGhost: 14 person-years  .. impressive ..
(08:44:02 PM) GreyGhost: and that doesnt include the C version or the C++ version
(08:44:14 PM) nihathrael: <>
(08:44:17 PM) StefanUH: yes, but where will we put the ally ,neutral and enemy buttons?
(08:44:23 PM) totycro_: the numbers might be a bit optimistic, because they are supposed to be fun
(08:44:32 PM) totycro_: and a low number wouldn't be fund
(08:44:34 PM) totycro_: *fun
(08:44:39 PM) totycro_: <>
(08:44:50 PM) totycro_: StefanUH: isn't that in the design in the wiki?
(08:45:19 PM) Andre_Re: re
(08:46:13 PM) Kilian]: totycro_: StefanUH anyone the link 
(08:46:14 PM) UH-Guard: New news from uhtrac: Ticket #1178 (Resource deposits remain selected after being removed.) closed || Ticket #1210 (Selections left behind after selecting tearing tool) closed || Ticket #1212 (Support multiple background images in the main menu) created
(08:47:36 PM) totycro_: Kilian]: ccan't find it atm :(
(08:47:49 PM) Kilian]: same here
(08:48:10 PM) totycro_: StefanUH: do you know how it's called
(08:48:11 PM) totycro_: ?
(08:48:48 PM) StefanUH: totycro: sorry, i'm wondering the same thing
(08:49:04 PM) ketas-ts left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 245 seconds).
(08:49:16 PM) StefanUH: totycro: i could log on linux, but i have to restart
(08:49:27 PM) totycro_: we could continue the talk next week or so with the image
(08:50:04 PM) totycro_: <>
(08:50:15 PM) StefanUH: i'll restart now, shouldn't take much
(08:50:18 PM) totycro_: btw: there's still the issue of how to vote on 2012.1 features
(08:50:26 PM) totycro_: (planned for after the meeting)
(08:50:48 PM) Andre_Re: wow, in just a few months we will reach the 1 million dollar mark
(08:51:10 PM) totycro_: gsoc probably gave us a big push in lines of code
(08:51:13 PM) nihathrael: we can discuss that outside the meeting totycro_
(08:51:22 PM) totycro_: i'll close it, k?
(08:51:28 PM) Kilian]: <>
(08:51:57 PM) StefanUH left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).
(08:52:00 PM) totycro_: #endmeeting
(08:52:00 PM) GreyGhost: http://wiki.unknown-horizons.org/w/File:Diplomacy-adv.png[1]
(08:52:00 PM) UH-Guard!~unknown-h@cl-1281.dus-01.de.sixxs.net: UH-Guard has changed the topic to: Welcome to #unknown-horizons | www.unknown-horizons.org | Read the FAQ: http://wiki.unknown-horizons.org/w/FAQ[1] | News: Release coming up next week. Stay tuned!
(08:52:00 PM) UH-Guard: Meeting ended Sun Nov  6 19:41:38 2011 UTC.  Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot[1] . (v 0.1.4)
(08:52:01 PM) UH-Guard: Minutes:        http://meetings.christoph-egger.org/unknown-horizons/2011/unknown-horizons.2011-11-06-17.02.html[1]
(08:52:01 PM) UH-Guard: Minutes (text): http://meetings.christoph-egger.org/unknown-horizons/2011/unknown-horizons.2011-11-06-17.02.txt[1]
(08:52:01 PM) UH-Guard: Log:            http://meetings.christoph-egger.org/unknown-horizons/2011/unknown-horizons.2011-11-06-17.02.log.html[1]
(08:52:02 PM) GreyGhost: no?
(08:52:22 PM) totycro_: GreyGhost: yeah, that's it
(08:52:40 PM) totycro_: ah, you have to search for multimedia
(08:52:42 PM) GreyGhost: wiki - > special pages -> recent uploads ;)
(08:53:10 PM) totycro_: the wiki search feature is really bad, if 1 out of 4 computer-savy people manages to work with it
(08:53:33 PM) totycro_: so, about the voting system
(08:53:42 PM) totycro_: how about we talk about it in 15 min?
(08:54:04 PM) Kilian]: okay
(08:54:05 PM) Andre_Re: which voting systems?
(08:54:19 PM) nihathrael: that sounds good, then i can (finally) take a shower, just came back from a 3 day hiking trip with out electricity and running water ;)
(08:54:25 PM) totycro_: to find out preferences about which features we want in 2012.1
(08:55:04 PM) Andre_Re: sounds great
(08:55:13 PM) GreyGhost: its 1:30 am here and i've to go to get back up from sleep at 6:00 :P
(08:55:33 PM) GreyGhost: votes in forum ?
(08:55:59 PM) StefanUH [bc1af6ae@gateway/web/freenode/ip.188.26.246.174] entered the room.
(08:56:10 PM) StefanUH: found it
(08:56:15 PM) totycro_: StefanUH: GreyGhost did too: http://wiki.unknown-horizons.org/w/File:Diplomacy-adv.png[1]
(08:56:31 PM) totycro_: GreyGhost: i've no idea which program to use for the votes
(08:56:37 PM) StefanUH: thanks :)
(08:57:05 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, i used to be the wiki translate guy when i joined remmebr.. learnt my way around the wiki bugs a bit ;)
(08:57:11 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, program?
(08:57:22 PM) totycro_: StefanUH: we're discussing the voting thing in 15 min, i'll take a recess until then, but if you want to talk about diplo issues, any time later is fine
(08:57:36 PM) totycro_: GreyGhost: software
(08:57:50 PM) Andre_Re: by the way, is the german translation fully complete now?
(08:57:53 PM) StefanUH: sure, now i understood the design
(08:57:54 PM) totycro_: maybe there's sth like doodle, or the forum is powerful enough
(08:58:25 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, i thought the forums usually have that lets u vote.. but now does it let u choose more than one?
(08:58:38 PM) Kilian]: Andre_Re: normally if chris adds an english string he also does the german translation
(08:58:46 PM) totycro_: that's what someone will have to investigate
(08:59:25 PM) Kilian]: GreyGhost: its possiblr
(08:59:50 PM) Kilian]: totycro_: we can use the forums
(09:00:08 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, we just need something like 10 things to choose from and everyone gets to select 5 out of them? or do we neeed more?
(09:01:38 PM) gscai: can it represent opposition to an option?
(09:02:01 PM) StefanUH: brb
(09:02:11 PM) Kilian]: gscai: dont think so
(09:02:52 PM) Andre_Re: I found some untranslated parts
(09:03:02 PM) Andre_Re: let me check, if they are still there
(09:04:31 PM) Kilian]: http://pootle.unknown-horizons.org/[1]
(09:04:40 PM) Kilian]: german is complete
(09:04:52 PM) Kilian]: if there are untranslate thibgs, create a ticket
(09:05:01 PM) Kilian]: btw you have to rebuild your translation files
(09:07:21 PM) totycro_: we could have 2 votes, one positive and one negative
(09:08:22 PM) totycro_: also, it might be more significant if it focuses on team members, as in people who actually do or want to do some work on uh
(09:09:01 PM) Beliar_ [~Beliar@a89-182-49-87.net-htp.de] entered the room.
(09:09:01 PM) Beliar left the room (quit: Disconnected by services).
(09:09:05 PM) Beliar_ is now known as Beliar
(09:10:32 PM) totycro_: what do you think about 2 votes and dev-onl?
(09:10:33 PM) totycro_: *only
(09:11:09 PM) GreyGhost: totycro_, +1
(09:11:12 PM) GreyGhost: for both :D
(09:11:17 PM) gscai: ^ same
(09:11:35 PM) nihathrael: totycro_: http://www.statpac.com/poll/instant_poll.htm[1]
(09:12:11 PM) totycro_: wah, way too many steps
(09:12:15 PM) gscai: what about using the wiki?
(09:12:37 PM) gscai: * idea
(09:12:37 PM) gscai: ** for it: names
(09:12:37 PM) gscai: ** opposed: names
(09:12:40 PM) totycro_: k, i guess we're few enough to make sure about the constraints
(09:13:11 PM) totycro_: we could have "separate" polls on general features as well as buildings
(09:13:16 PM) totycro_: so basically editing here: http://wiki.unknown-horizons.org/w/2012.1_ideas[1]
(09:13:26 PM) totycro_: and like 5 votes for features and 3 for buildings or so
(09:14:07 PM) gscai: some of these will need an explanation though
(09:14:26 PM) totycro_: some designs are actually missing
(09:14:52 PM) totycro_: but since the vote is just a survey, i think it need not be that accurate
(09:15:01 PM) totycro_: i'll remove the editor, that's decided already
